# Applied DSP - Homework 4
Aaron Lim - 20 October 2020

# Background
Advances in ADC designs now make it possible to perform direct sampling of RF signals. Your homework assignment is to generate simulated receive data for an L-band (1-2 GHz) radar direct-sampled at 5 GSps, digitally demodulate it, and perform pulse compression.  You can use floating-point samples for this assignment.  You may work in small teams.

# Task
Generate 1 ms worth of pseudo-random noise data at 5 GSps.  This data should have a normal distribution (for instance, use randn() in MATLAB).
Generate an LFM pulse (see last slide) with a pulse width of 10 μs and a bandwidth of 8 MHz at your choice of center frequency in L-Band (1-2 GHz), sampled at 5 GSPS.  Add several copies of this waveform to the noise data at random times.  The amplitude of the LFM pulses should be less than the standard deviation of the noise data, so that they are obscured by the noise.
Write code to digitally demodulate the data to baseband and perform low-pass filtering.  (In other words, process the data into a quadrature signal).  Decimate the results to 10 MSPS.  (Hint: you may want to filter and decimate the signal in stages).
Cross-correlate the quadrature data with a baseband version of the radar pulse.  This is known as pulse compression.

# Questions

What bandwidth did you use for the low-pass filter(s)?  Why?
What happens to the ratio of the signal power to the noise power (Signal-To-Noise Ratio, or SNR) after low-pass filtering?  Why is that the case?
What happens to the SNR after pulse compression?
What happens to the shape of the signal envelope (i.e. its magnitude) after pulse compression?
Why do you think pulse compression is useful in a radar system?

# Notes
The standard deviation of the pseudo-random numbers generated by MATLAB’s randn() function is 1.  In other words, s*randn(..) has a standard deviation of s.  When we use randn() to generate noise, the noise power is equal to the variance.  The variance is equal to s^2.

To design a low-pass filter, you can use MATLAB’s Filter Design and Analysis tool by running the command fdatool.  Be sure to close MATLAB when you are done, since this uses a Signal Processing Toolbox license!  For this exercise, I would recommend you use FIR filters.  You can apply a FIR filter by convolving the signal with the filter coefficients.

Decimation means to throw away data.  For instance, when you decimate by 4, you simply keep every 4th sample.  This reduces the sample rate by a factor of 4.
